MOLT Oracle documentation; refactor MOLT tutorials (#19918)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/molt/migration-prepare-database.md

#### Create migration user on source database

Create a dedicated migration user (e.g., `MIGRATION_USER`) on the source database. This user is responsible for reading data from source tables during the migration.

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="postgres">
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE USER MIGRATION_USER WITH PASSWORD 'password';
~~~

Grant the user privileges to connect, view schema objects, and select the tables you migrate.

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql

> GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE ON DATABASE source_database TO MIGRATION_USER;

Reviewer: Is this meant to be for a specific dialect or all databases? Agreed with Florence's point here. This is something we want to specify as for Oracle.

> GRANT CONNECT, RESOURCE ON DATABASE source_database TO MIGRATION_USER;

Reviewer 2: my concern is not that `GRANT CONNECT` is incorrect, but that `GRANT RESOURCE` is incorrect.

```suggestion
GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE source_database TO MIGRATION_USER;
```

GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA migration_schema TO MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON ALL TABLES IN SCHEMA migration_schema TO MIGRATION_USER;
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES IN SCHEMA migration_schema GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO MIGRATION_USER;
~~~
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="mysql">
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE USER MIGRATION_USER@'%' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
~~~

Grant the user privileges to select only the tables you migrate:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
GRANT SELECT ON source_database.* TO MIGRATION_USER@'%';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
~~~
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="oracle">
{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE USER MIGRATION_USER IDENTIFIED BY '{password}';
~~~

{{site.data.alerts.callout_info}}
When migrating from Oracle Multitenant (PDB/CDB), this should be a [common user](https://docs.oracle.com/database/121/ADMQS/GUID-DA54EBE5-43EF-4B09-B8CC-FAABA335FBB8.htm). Prefix the username with `C##` (e.g., `C##MIGRATION_USER`).
{{site.data.alerts.end}}

> Grant the migration user privileges to connect, read metadata, and `SELECT` and `FLASHBACK` the tables you plan to migrate. The tables should all reside in a single schema (e.g., `migration_schema`). For details, refer to [Schema and table filtering](#schema-and-table-filtering).

Reviewer: @noelcrl is "schema" the precise name for this concept in Oracle? Would it also help here to link Oracle docs related to `SELECT` and `FLASHBACK` grants or show a sample `GRANT` query?

> Grant the migration user privileges to connect, read metadata, and `SELECT` and `FLASHBACK` the tables you plan to migrate. The tables should all reside in a single schema (e.g., `migration_schema`). For details, refer to [Schema and table filtering](#schema-and-table-filtering).

Reviewer: Also I don't think `FLASHBACK` is used in Postgres or MySQL. That seems to be an Oracle thing.

> Grant the migration user privileges to connect, read metadata, and `SELECT` and `FLASHBACK` the tables you plan to migrate. The tables should all reside in a single schema (e.g., `migration_schema`). For details, refer to [Schema and table filtering](#schema-and-table-filtering).

Author: This content is all inside an Oracle div, so I think we're good here.

- `--binlog-row-image=full`
- `--server-id={ID}`
- `--log-bin=log-bin`
</section>

<section class="filter-content" markdown="1" data-scope="oracle">

> ##### Create source sentinel table

Reviewer: Should we more clear that this only applies to Oracle? We don't need this sentinel table for other dialects because we don't buffer in mem.

Author: The `data-scope="oracle"` div ensures that this only appears when the Oracle tab is selected.

Create a checkpoint table called `_replicator_sentinel` in the Oracle schema you will migrate:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
CREATE TABLE migration_schema."_replicator_sentinel" (
  keycol NUMBER PRIMARY KEY,
  lastSCN NUMBER
);
~~~

> Grant permissions to modify the checkpoint table. In Oracle Multitenant, grant the permissions on the PDB:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Grant privileges to modify the checkpoint table. In Oracle Multitenant, grant the privileges on the PDB:
```

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
GRANT SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE ON migration_schema."_replicator_sentinel" TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
~~~

##### Grant LogMiner privileges

Grant LogMiner privileges. In Oracle Multitenant, grant the permissions on the CDB:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
-- Access to necessary V$ views
GRANT SELECT ON V_$LOG TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$LOGFILE TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$LOGMNR_CONTENTS TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$ARCHIVED_LOG TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON V_$LOG_HISTORY TO C##MIGRATION_USER;

-- SYS-prefixed views (for full dictionary access)
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.V_$LOGMNR_DICTIONARY TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.V_$LOGMNR_LOGS TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.V_$LOGMNR_PARAMETERS TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT SELECT ON SYS.V_$LOGMNR_SESSION TO C##MIGRATION_USER;

-- Access to LogMiner views and controls
GRANT LOGMINING TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
GRANT EXECUTE ON DBMS_LOGMNR TO C##MIGRATION_USER;
~~~

> The user is responsible for querying redo logs from LogMiner, querying active transaction information to obtain the starting point for initial ongoing replication, and updating the internal `_replicator_sentinel` table previously created on the Oracle source schema by the DBA.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The user must:
- query [redo logs from LogMiner](#verify-logminer-privileges),
- retrieve active transaction information to determine the starting point for ongoing replication, and
- update the internal `_replicator_sentinel` table created on the Oracle source schema by the DBA.
```

> ##### Verify LogMiner privileges

Reviewer: Great level of detail here! I think this will help folks do a good sanity check.

Query the locations of redo files in the Oracle database:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SELECT
    l.GROUP#,
    lf.MEMBER,
    l.FIRST_CHANGE# AS START_SCN,
    l.NEXT_CHANGE# AS END_SCN
FROM
    V$LOG l
JOIN
    V$LOGFILE lf
ON
    l.GROUP# = lf.GROUP#;
~~~

~~~
   GROUP# MEMBER                                       START_SCN                END_SCN 
_________ _________________________________________ ____________ ______________________ 
        3 /opt/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/redo03.log         1232896    9295429630892703743 
        2 /opt/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/redo02.log         1155042                1232896 
        1 /opt/oracle/oradata/ORCLCDB/redo01.log         1141934                1155042 

3 rows selected.
~~~

Get the current snapshot System Change Number (SCN):

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
SELECT CURRENT_SCN FROM V$DATABASE;
~~~

~~~
CURRENT_SCN
-----------
2358840

1 row selected.
~~~

Load the redo logs into LogMiner, replacing `{current-scn}` with the SCN you queried:

{% include_cached copy-clipboard.html %}
~~~ sql
EXEC DBMS_LOGMNR.START_LOGMNR(
  STARTSCN => {current-scn},

>   ENDSCN   => 2358840,

Reviewer 2: Why is `ENDSCN` set to the same value (`2358840`) as `current_scn` from line 239?
